# BigData-Yelp
Short Description: Big Data project to correlate Yelp reviews and restaurant health ratings

	In many cities such as Los Angeles and New York, there is a clear identifiable health ratings system for restaurants. Businesses that serve and prepare food are required to post these health ratings in clear sight of their consumers. This means that consumers are able to know whether the establishment they are eating in at has any low, moderate, or high risk health violations. These violations include the contamination of foods, or the non-compliance with safety standards for food, among others. Restaurants with lower health ratings are more likely to pass along foodborne illnesses to customers, because they violate important health standards.  
	
	In Boston, there is no clear health rating system for restaurants which is accessible for the everyday consumer.  While there is information on the Boston.gov website about past inspection history, this information is not available or easily accessible for consumers dining in or taking out food from the restaurant. This means that customers are unaware of the current health level of the establishment, which could open them up to the transmission of foodborne illnesses. This means that consumers are being exposed to, and could themselves transmit these illnesses, because they were unaware of the health situation. 
	
	The goal of this project was to provide customers of restaurants that do not provide a health rating with a better idea of the health standards of each establishment. Using the Yelp reviews of each restaurant, we developed a model using the words from restaurants with very good and very bad health ratings.  We made the model using Logistic Regression of the TFIDF scores of the words, and used this model for validity testing of new "unknown" restaurants.  This model was around 70 \% accurate for sorting new restaurants into the good or bad category.  


**This project was used as a semester long research project for a class focused on utilizing and analyzing Big Data.  It uses the Apache Spark engine for the fast data processing. 